# Movie-Recommendation-System
Used a dataset from kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata) of 5000 movies. The data was loaded from a csv file to pandas dataframe. Since all features aren't important (e.g., ID and Index) so relevant few (Genres,keywords,tagline,cast,director) were chosen for the recommendation model. As part of pre-processing all missing values in these features were replaced with empty strings and then all these 5 features for all the rows were put together. Next was to fit and transform all this textual data into feature vectores using TfidVectorizer. With the updated numerical information cosine similarity could be found and repectively scores get alloted. Now user was prompted to enter the movie that they like. From a list of all the movies in the dataset it was compared if an exact or a close match movie to what the user entered was found or not using the difflib module's get_close_matches function. From the list that is output we take the first value as the closest to what the user entered. Now the index of the close match movie is found for it to be compared with all other movies and find the similarity score. If the score was less then that movie is less similar but if its more then its more similar to the close match movie. The scores and and indexing are stored in a list using the enumerate function. This list is then sorted in descending order using the lambda function as the key parameter since we want to recommend the movie with highest similarity first. Now a loop is run 15 times on the dataset finding movie titles with the indicies from the enumerated list having highest similarity  to recommend 15 new movies.
